Objectives
describe Agile assessments and how to migrate an organization to the Agile methodology
[Video description begins] Topic Title: Agile Assessment. Your host for the session is Colin Calnan. [Video description ends]

In this video, I'll describe Agile assessments and migrating an organization to the Agile methodology. So plenty of companies want to be Agile and they go through the motions but they're not really Agile. An Agile assessment is going to allow you to evaluate how teams or even organizations are doing in their Agile journey. But like any useful tool, there's no shortage of assessment options available. So there are some acceptance criteria to look for and a framework for using Agile assessment. So assessments come in all forms, but there are many reasons why we do them. In the end, we want to know something about the ability of someone or something.

So when working with a team or an organization, an assessment can be introduced as a tool to assist in guiding an Agile transformation. It can also be used to enable the ability to continually improve. If a team is not able to learn and take actions from their past sprints, they'll never truly improve. It can also be used as an invaluable mechanism to communicate the transformation strategy. And then finally, it can help narrow down and define the areas that should be measured to help measure progress and to help lead the organization or the team to a more mature state of agility. So, why should you do an Agile assessment? Well, it's going to help establish a baseline of the current level of Agile adoption.

Eventually, it's going to be beneficial to measure progress. So taking the time to establish the baseline right at the beginning is going to set you up for measuring well later. An assessment can also help determine if you are ready to move to the next level of practice or adoption. This can be achieved by having honest, critical and brave people in your assessment. You can also see how you're tracking against your adoption or your transformation goals. Knowing this can help sustain and grow your support for adoption. As well as recognizing what parts of the framework have been mastered and what you're able to do with the new skills or the capabilities. Change is tough, so remember, celebrate your wins, no matter how small. As well as that you can identify the next things that you're going to work on that helps the team narrow or target their focus.

And it's important to set the context for organizational change. To facilitate this, you can use the assessment as a change management tool in itself. It's important to involve the team as much as possible in the assessment, so they can learn from the exercise and then use the information to set targets and make improvements. So what areas does an assessment look at? Well, a team can be measured in a simple way by the improvement of a few practices, or against more extensive measures, through what we could call a competency framework. And a competency framework would focus on things we do, like stand ups, iteration planning and retrospectives. It could also focus on capabilities like defining clear acceptance criteria.

So using a known competency framework, that can be a useful way to bring a level of consistent understanding across teams in the organization. So some assessment practices would be to define the product and that's going to include identifying epics and features and defining clear acceptance criteria. That means being able to provide a clear definition of the goals on the road map as well as ensuring the definition of done is clearly internalized by the team. So planning and coordinating is going to include eliminating and managing risk, and planning and grooming the backlog.

And this means that you want to coordinate work across your teams to limit the impact of both internal and external risks to the team while ensuring that there's enough work room so the team can continue to do work. Enterprise alignment, well, that's going to include things like demand management and architectural alignment. And this means that the team is working from a single prioritized backlog or the work in progress is limited. And architectural alignment means that the architecture is actively working with teams to groom solutions. Organization enablement, and this is going to include empowering teams and developing practice competencies.

And this means that people will take ownership for their commitments and outcomes within a defined set of organizational constraints. As well as helping the teams to make appropriate decisions when applying the practices in their daily work. Engineering, this isn't going to include collective code ownership and continuous integration. And it means that developers can make code changes anywhere they need and that automated builds will occur at every check-in. That tests will pass locally before every check-in and that immediate feedback happens when new code might break the build.

And communication, and this will ensure that the whole team sits together and that the daily stand ups occur at the same time. And that they last 15 minutes or less and that they surface any roadblocks. So when conducting an Agile assessment or a self-assessment, an understandable rating scale should be used. So one that allows the rater to assign a value to the practice or the capability that's being assessed. And there's two types of rating systems that can be used. One is to use numbers, a scale of like one to X, one to N is common, and it's become part of our vocabulary. It's easy to understand and it's very straightforward.

You could also include a qualitative description of each number in the scale that might improve its usefulness. For example, a rating two could be described as apprentice or beginner. If you use that then that category is more likely to mean the same thing to different people. So consistency in the interpretation of the scale is going to be important to a team as they continue to self assess periodically. You could also use a symbol rating system. So you could use a graphical visual representation or a numeric instead of a numeric scale.

Those kind of graphical or visual representations can kind of bring to life the process and then lead to a quick interpretation of the results. So one example of that would be the standard traffic light colors, for example. You also sometimes, or often, see the use of four or five stars in online ratings for movies, books, hotels, and we all understand what those mean. So the assessment star rating could be something that you could implement that would be familiar and similar. A visual rating that were used to seeing doesn't require a lot of thought to interpret it. So once an assessment has occurred, how often does it make sense to reassess?

Well, if you look back at some of the reasons to do an assessment, many of them set the expectation that it's a recurring activity. Well, ideally you're already using metrics to improve your process in general, an Agile assessment has a more specific purpose and lifespan and support of an Agile transformation in your organization. So when new members join a team, it's reasonable to expect that they'll require time getting up to speed and a reassessment can help identify if that training has been successful.

Once a team or an organization reaches a greater level of maturity in their adoption, and Agile becomes kind of the way they build software, the assessment is not really going to provide any more value. It doesn't mean you stop continuously improving but that's what retrospectives are for. A team who's given training will have a scrum master or other leader on the team with Agile experience, and they also have continued coaching and they gain more experience.

So you would expect to see a change in a short time and you will want to have visibility to their progress using their results from these assessments. And then the frequency of the assessment should take into consideration the rate of change you're expecting between assessments. For example, if it's a new team that are sent to training and left mostly alone to figure it out, it's reasonable to expect that a great deal of improvement would be in the next 30 days and with that, it makes sense to wait a couple of months to reassess.