Objectives
describe Agile project management, team member roles and responsibilities, the significance of continuous integration, Agile assessment, and migrating to an Agile environment
[Video description begins] Topic title: Exercise: Agile Project Management. Your host for the session is Colin Calnan. [Video description ends]

In this exercise, you will describe how the Agile process applies to project management. Describe the steps involved in the Agile project management process. Identify the manager's roles and responsibilities. Identify the team member's roles and responsibilities. Identify the significance of continuous integration in Agile. And describe Agile assessment and migrating to an Agile environment. So pause the video, review those questions, attempt to answer them and then when you're ready, you come back and hit play. Okay, so let's look how the Agile process applies to project management.

[Video description begins] A Solution banner appears. [Video description ends]

Well, it is an Agile project management approach, that's the first thing that needs to be looked at. The second thing is that you need to know the Agile principles in order to apply it to Agile project management. As well as that, you should know what the common reasons to use Agile are. And understand your capabilities, that's really important. And then you should choose a pilot project to use when testing out your Agile project management approach. Question number two was to describe the steps involved in the Agile project management process.

Well we have project planning, product roadmap, release planning, sprint planning, daily meetings or scrums, and review and retrospective meetings. Those are all the steps that would be involved in Agile project management process. So then we can move on to look at the, and identify the manager's roles and responsibilities. So their role is to promote the Agile process, to guide teams to solve problems. So to be a coach, to participate in transition planning, and to help reduce waste in general across the project. Then we can look at the team member's roles and responsibilities in Agile project management.

So we would have a team lead, a product owner for the product, individual team members, stakeholders, team members can also be stakeholders, technical experts, domain experts, or independent testers. Then we can identify the significance of continuous integration or CI in Agile. So the benefits, there are many benefits to continuous integration, that's why it's significant. If there are many challenges of continuous integration at the same time. And then there are a number of continuous integration best practices that can be reviewed. Finally, we can describe Agile assessment and migrating to an Agile environment. Agile assessments are usually used as part of an Agile transformation. They make up and help define the transformation strategy. It can work towards improving the team. And reporting back on how the team has improved. And it can be also used as a measure of the state of the agility within the organization.