Objectives
describe methods and technologies for promoting Agile collaboration within teams
[Video description begins] Topic Title: Agile Collaboration. Your host for the session is Colin Calnan. [Video description ends]

In this video, I'll describe methods and technologies for promoting agile collaboration within teams. So knowing that collaboration is vitally important to ensuring a successful agile process, what tools and techniques can be used to facilitate collaboration? Collaboration practices and tools should be adapted with large and distributed teams in mind. Tools and approaches can be tweaked to encourage simple and more frequent communication for large teams. There's some best practices that can help facilitate collaboration between distributed teams. Daily stand-up meetings. Teams can select a representative to attend a cross-team daily stand up to provide the platform for teams to share high level updates on their respective work.

And in these meetings, they can also help identify impediments and collaborate on help that they might need from other teams. This meeting is usually called a scrum of scrums in large scrum teams. So holding a quarterly or monthly cross-team planning review enables teams to define high level requirements. They can map cross team dependencies, and it also helps teams understand how all the separate team efforts contribute and integrate into the final solution. For large agile teams, that have multiple product lines and product owners, a regular check-in helps the product owners talk about scope and acceptance criteria and dependency.

And that can help align and prioritize initiatives and then create the team's product backlogs. It also enables the product owners to agree in the highest priority task for the organization, and then guide their teams to deliver those. Cross-team retrospectives, so, these create the platform for teams to examine and reflect on their collaboration process. They can identify action items or hold themselves accountable for improvements. For instance, teams could use their retrospective sessions to update their working agreements, their definition of done and also their communication plan.

Collaboration and simple teamwork are probably the most important skills in the list of agile best practices, valuing individuals and interactions, means practicing the teamwork daily. So how can you work towards effective agile collaboration? Well, one is to have clear objectives. If you have clear objectives and separation of work, each team member should understand what their work and objectives of the work are. Separation of work between multiple teams also creates independence for teams to minimize duplication of effort. It can also help teams to identify cross-team dependencies, and this is done by developing and maintaining a team product backlog for respective teams to ensure that each team is driving their solution towards the delivery of the big picture. No departmental silos.

Agile teams that are cross-functional with multi-disciplinary members with lots of skill sets from across the organization, they collaborate together to deliver a given product. They go beyond what might be perceived as traditional departmental boundaries, and they do that by eliminating silos, and helping to drive the cultural and the structural changes to support teams at the organizational level. Agile teams are self organizing. Well, at least, they should be according to principle 11 of agile manifesto, the best architectures, requirements, and designs are merged from self organizing teams. That means that it's a responsibility of the larger organization to enable the collaboration environment for its teams.

And this is going to enable emergent architecture designs, while also providing guides and standards for the entire organization. Effective communication is vital to the success of an agile project. It's possible to see the signs of broken communication, which will allow you to catch early and make adjustments to your process to bring things back in line. So some signs of broken communication include, people are not attending calls, they are avoiding discussions or they are generally late to calls, that you need multiple calls to come to a decision or an agreement.

People are not paying attention in the call and then they ask for points to be repeated, and the team says yes in the call but nothing happens later. Like they might agree to an action item of a retrospective and then nothing happens afterwards. So choosing the right tool is very important, and the right ones should help drive change in the organization. So let's look at some tools that can add and aid team collaboration.

Visual boards, so kanban or scrum boards can help teams plan together, they can visualize progress and they can help stay focused on goals. There's applications like Jira and Trello that provide the features that can foster discussions and collaboration across teams by providing things like co-planning and progress tracking. Real-time collaboration tools. So these are really important for teams that are not co-located, and they should be reliable and easy to access. Tools like conference call software with video capability, like WebEx or GoToMeeting.

Chat tools that allow people to have conversations, like Slack or Microsoft Teams. And then documenting or whiteboarding tools for ideation and brainstorming like Mural boards, Google Drive, Office 365. Integration tools, so with multiple teams continuously producing increments and builds into a single product code base, then end to end testing and integration becomes one of the main acceptance requirements. So the organization is going to need to support this process by making sure that the teams are equipped with the right applications to automate the work and then create some cadence.

So there's various tools to support handoffs between teams, infrastructure operations, automation, some popular applications are Deploy Bot, Jenkins or Octopus. So choosing the right tool for collaboration is very important. So let's look at some of those tools. We would have good conference equipment, tools like WebEx, GoToMeeting, Skype, each team member should have a good headset with clear sound quality and speakers. Poor audio generally encourages people to get distracted easily.

Group chat applications like Slack, where you can converse, you can create channels, and there's thousands of integrations that you can bring into your workflow using Slack. Jira is an agile project management tool that supports any agile methodology, and you can plan, track and manage all of your development in a single tool. IdeaBoardz, and these can be used for distributed retrospectives and collaborative decision making. Google Docs can collaboratively create documents and diagram easily, with history, reviewing and commenting. And Trello, Trello is a great tool for creating and managing short term to do lists in a more kanban way for distributed teams.

9. Video: Agile Artifacts (it_pmapsddj_01_enus_09)